---
layout: post # 使用的布局（不需要改）
title: AWS - RDS & Aurora # 标题
subtitle: #副标题
date: 2020-12-30 # 时间
author: Nuo Xu # 作者
header-img: #这篇文章标题背景图片
catalog: true # 是否归档
tags: #标签
  - AWS
---

# Session6 - RDS & Aurora

## 53. RDS

RDS stands for Relational Database Service  
It’s a managed DB service for DB use SQL as a query language.  
It allows you to create databases in the cloud that are managed by AWS  
• Postgres  
• MySQL  
• MariaDB  
• Oracle  
• Microsoft SQL Server  
• Aurora (AWS Proprietary database)

RDS is a managed service:  
• Automated provisioning, OS patching  
• Continuous backups and restore to specific timestamp (Point in Time Restore)!  
• Monitoring dashboards  
• Read replicas for improved read performance  
• Multi AZ setup for DR (Disaster Recovery), through one DNS name  
• Maintenance windows for upgrades  
• Scaling capability (vertical and horizontal)  
• Storage backed by EBS (gp2 or io1)  
BUT you can’t SSH into your instances

### RDS Read Replicas

Within AZ, Cross AZ (cost money) or Cross Region  
Replication is ASYNC, so reads are eventually consistent  
Replicas can be promoted to their own DB  
Read replicas are used for SELECT (=read) only kind of statements (not INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE)

### RDS Security

Encryption at rest:
• Is done only when you first create the DB instance
• or: unencrypted DB => snapshot => copy snapshot as encrypted => create DB from snapshot

## 57. Aurora

• Postgres and MySQL are both supported as Aurora DB (that means your drivers will work as if Aurora was a Postgres or MySQL database)  
• Aurora is “AWS cloud optimized” and claims 5x performance improvement over MySQL on RDS, over 3x the performance of Postgres on RDS  
• Aurora storage automatically grows in increments of 10GB, up to 64 TB.  
• Failover in Aurora is instantaneous. It’s HA (High Availability) native.

## 59. Elastic Cache

ElastiCache is to get managed Redis or Memcached

DB Cache:  
• Applications queries ElastiCache, if not available, get from RDS and store in ElastiCache.  
• Helps relieve load in RDS  
• Cache must have an invalidation strategy to make sure only the most current data is used in there.

User session store:
• User logs into any of the application
• The application writes the session data into ElastiCache
• The user hits another instance of our application
• The instance retrieves the data and the user is already logged in

### 61. Caching Stratigies

#### 1.Lazy Loading / Cache-Aside / Lazy Population

Pros:  
• Only requested data is cached (the cache isn’t filled up with unused data)  
• Node failures are not fatal (just increased latency to warm the cache)  
 Cons:  
• Cache miss penalty that results in 3 round trips, noticeable delay for that request  
• Stale data: data can be updated in the database and outdated in the cache

#### 2.Write Through

Add or Update cache when database is updated  
Pros:  
• Data in cache is never stale, reads are quick  
• Write penalty vs Read penalty (each write requires 2 calls)  
Cons:  
• Missing Data until it is added / updated in the DB. Mitigation is to implement Lazy Loading strategy as well  
• Cache churn – a lot of the data will never be read

#### 3.Cache Evictions and Time-to-live (TTL)

Cache eviction can occur in three ways:  
• You delete the item explicitly in the cache  
• Item is evicted because the memory is full and it’s not recently used (LRU)  
• Yousetanitemtime-to-live(orTTL)
