---
layout: post # 使用的布局（不需要改）
title: AWS -	IAM & EC2 # 标题
subtitle: #副标题
date: 2020-12-25 # 时间
author: Nuo Xu # 作者
header-img: #这篇文章标题背景图片
catalog: true # 是否归档
tags: #标签
  - AWS
---

# Session 1

## 5. Setup AWS budget - Lab

# Session 3

## 12. IAM Introduction

IAM - users, groups, roles  
One IAM User per PHYSICAL PERSON  
One IAM Role per Application  
IAM credentials should NEVER BE SHARED  
Never use the ROOT account except for initial setup

## 13. IAM - Lab

I set a user called Udemy (give it admin access Authority) and will sign in this account for the futher study.

## 15. EC2 - Lab

It mainly consists in the capability of :  
• Renting virtual machines (EC2)  
• Storing data on virtual drives (EBS)  
• Distributing load across machines (ELB)  
• Scaling the services using an auto-scaling group (ASG)

## 17. SSH to VM - Lab

go to the .pem directory

1. `ssh ec2-user@<public ipv4>` , if denied?
2. `ssh -i <.pem file name include .pem> ec2-user@<public ipv4 name>`, if bad permission?
3. `chmod 0400 <.pem file name include .pem>` , then run 2 again, can get into vm successfully

Type `whoami` will give us the user name, so you will be sure you are access into this ec2 instance  
To exit the VM: `exit` or 'control + D'

Tips: if ssh nothing happend, it is called timeout, which may caused by the security group does not allowed the inbound traffic

## 22 & 23. Security group

They control how traffic is allowed into or out of our EC2 Machines.  
Can be attached to multiple instances  
All inbound traffic is **blocked** by default  
All outbound traffic is **authorised** by default

## 24 & 25. IPv4 & IPv6 & Elastic IP

### Elastic IPs

• When you stop and then start an EC2 instance, it can change its public IP, but will not change the private IP  
• An Elastic IP is a public IPv4 IP you own as long as you don’t delete it  
• You can attach it to one instance at a time  
• If you need to have a fixed public IP for your instance, you need an Elastic IP (Thus when you stop the instance, the public ip will not change, only after you delete the instance the ip will be delete too.)

## 26. Install Apache in EC2 - Lab

`sudo su` use root authority  
`yum update -y` update all packages  
`yum install -y httpd.x86_64` install httpd (-y means yes)  
`systemctl start httpd.service` start httpd  
`systemctl enable httpd.service` enable across reboots  
`curl localhost:80` curl is used to load whatever in this url  
remeber to go to security group open portal 80  
then use public ipv4 in the browser to see the page

## 27. EC2 user data script

That script is only run once at the instance first start  
EC2 user data is used to automate boot tasks such as:  
• Installing updates  
• Installing software  
• Downloading common files from the internet  
• Anything you can think of  
The EC2 User Data Script runs with the root user  
lab: it should be write when you first create this instance

## 28 & 29. Instance launch types

get to know the difference of instance launch types.(on demand, spot, reserved, didected)

## 30. Elastic Network Interfaces (NEI)

I don't understand what is it for??? May further learning, when I need to use it.
